Okay we in essence store
the data efficiently.
But is it any good?
Are there ways of knowing if the data is
potentially error free and useful for
the intended purpose?
This is the issue of data quality.
There are many reasons
why any data application,
especially larger applications need
to be mindful of data quality.
Here are three reasons, of course
there are more that we do not mention.
The first reason emphasizes that
the ultimate use of big data
is its ability to give
us actionable insight.
Poor quality data leads to poor
analysis and hence to poor decisions.
The second related data in regulated
industries in areas like clinical
trials for pharmaceutical companies or
financial data like from banks.
Errors in data in these industries
can regulate regulations leading to
legal complications.
The third factor is different
than the first two.
It says if your big data should
be used by other people or
a third party software
it's very important for
the data to give good quality to
gain trust as a leader provider.
A class of big data applications
is scientific, where large,
integrated collections of data
are created by human experts to
understand scientific questions.
Ensuring accuracy of data will lead
to correct human engagement and
interaction with the data system.
Gartner, the well known
technology research and
advising company created a 2015
industry report on big data qualities.
In this report,
they identify the approaches to meeting
the data quality requirements
in the industry.
This methods include the adherence
to standards where applicable.
It also refers to the need to
create the rules in the data system
that can be use to check if the data
passes a set of correct this qualities.
Like is even employed above 18.
It also includes methods to clean
the data if it's found to have errors or
inconsistencies.
Further the data quality management should
include a well define work flow on how
low quality data could be corrected to
bring it back to a high level of quality.